# Tackling Online Harassment: Text Analysis of Social Media Platform Policies

## Abstract
Online harassment is a pervasive issue affecting millions of people globally. According to a survey by Pew Research Center, 4 in 10 Americans have experienced some form of online abuse, and the severity of such abuse appears to be increasing. This has raised concerns about how social media companies are responding and protecting users. This research project uses text analysis techniques of lexical density analysis, word frequency analysis and TF-IDF to analyze the community guidelines documents of three of the largest social media platforms (YouTube, Facebook, and TikTok) in order to better understand how they characterize and respond to online harassment. Specifically, this project seeks to answer the following questions:

1. What are the motivations that platforms have to issue public policies on harassment? 
2. Are the policies transparent on their characterization of harassment?
3. Do the policies contain concrete language on actions taken to prevent and respond to misconduct?

Regarding motivation, the findings of this study suggests that Facebook and Twitter have more comprehensive policies on harassment compared to YouTube. They also show that Facebook places greater emphasis on word harassment than YouTube and TikTok while TikTok places greater emphasis on the legal aspects of miscondict. The analysis includes evidence that Facebook's policy emphasizes content removal and providing resources to users while TikTok focuses on action primarily against sexual harassment and compliance with law enforcement requests. All three platforms emphasize reporting content as an action to respond to misconduct while not detailing actions to prevent. Finally, more comprehensive analysis is needed to understand the how the differences in policy language correlates to the effectiveness of preventing and responding to harassment by each platform. By exploring these questions, the goal of this research is to inform public policy by shedding light on the breadth of approaches taken by social media companies in addressing online harassment so that future research can be conducted on the effectiveness of differing responses. 

You can view the analysis code in 4 files (as the amount of text data was too large to upload in github in a single file). The first file contains an introduction, description of methods, and coding for YouTube policy data collection. The second file contains coding for Meta/Facebook policy data collection, the third for TikTok data collection, and the fourth file details the code used to analyze the text as well as the findings and conclusion. 
